**limp.freq (2025)**

limp.freq was developed as part of the Leonardo/ISAST CripTech AI Incubator from July to November 2025, for the virtual exhibition Slow AI (https://leonardo.info/slow-ai/) curated by M Eilo. Special thanks to M Eilo, the team at Leonardo (Vanessa Chang, Jason Lam, Maya Hilbert, Claudia Alick), and all who gave feedback over the weeks. You can access limp.freq at the Leonardo/ISAST site here: https://leonardo.info/slow-ai/limp-freq

**Project Description**

limp.freq deploys a population of self-navigating, cybernetics-inspired bots to examine how even relatively modest bodily asymmetries–exemplified by the artist’s own leg-length discrepancy (LLD)–shape behaviour not only at the scale of the individual (or the individual body), influencing posture, balance, and locomotion, but also generatively, as their effects cascade into collective perception, navigation, and environmental sense-making at architectural and spatial design scales.

Rather than celebrating bodily differences, most spaces still assume an imagined “standard” body–upright, symmetrical, mobile, two-handed, and two-legged (also sighted, hearing, and neurotypical). These presumptions may arise from explicit design choices, as in Le Corbusier’s Modulor man (the basis of the still-revered Unité d’Habitation), or more inadvertently, for example through the uncritical use of design tools that, in the name of effortlessness and usability, silently embed typical measurements. In either case, the frictions (or worse) encountered by non-normative bodies serve to expose how design is always a selective act, and how spaces encode assumptions about what is normal (and thus not just allowed but facilitated).

limp.freq is here presented as a series of five browser-based interactive simulations and nine still images created by these simulations, that, collectively, describe and document the divergent trajectories of two bot types, coloured green and orange. The orange bots are symmetric and approximate the efficiency-oriented behaviours privileged in standard algorithms, while the LLD-influenced, asymmetric green bots–less stable, more prone to fatigue, and in some cases actively avoiding less accessible terrain–produce slower, more messily meandering trails. However, these ostensibly “inefficient” paths reveal alternative cartographies of the 2-D and 3-D spaces used, foregrounding the epistemic richness of embodied variation and the limits of optimisation and universal design values.

In addition to contesting the normative spatial imaginaries through which bodies are measured, organised, and made legible–and in doing so calling for more pluralistic spatial thinking–the bots’ contrasting colours (green and orange) evoke two primal materials of early computing (phosphor and ferrite, respectively). Additionally, their underlying design is intentionally constrained so that the bots could plausibly have been (physically) built as contemporaries of Grey Walter’s tortoises (1949). Thus, a secondary and more subtly subversive function of limp.freq is to actively imagine–in the sense of speculative design–an alternative history of AI grounded in imperfection and diversity: a trajectory that challenges the persistent pursuit, fixed since the 1956 Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence (the conference generally credited with the formation of the AI field), of order and perfection through abstraction (simplification) and exclusion.
